---
layout: post
title: "Balloon Mapping and Outreach"
date: 2014-03-10 15:11
comments: true
author: Dana Bauer, Anne Gentle
published: false
categories: 
- events 
- outreach 
---


"What's the difference between data and a map?" This question came from
an inquisitive fifth grader at the University of Texas on a gorgeous
February Saturday in Austin. We brought a group of Rackers, some kites,
and a huge balloon with a camera rig to "Introduce a Girl to Engineering
Day," presented by the Women in Engineering Program (WEP). Thanks to
some safety-minded physicists at the university, our community manager
Dana Bauer got access to a tank of helium. We inflated a red balloon to
about five feet in diameter and set up the camera rig.

<img src="images/camera_rig.JPG"/>

<!--more-->

Another student asked, "How do you do open science or DIY science?" We
were happy to show them how by attaching the camera rig and letting the
balloon fly.

<img src="images/balloon_fly.JPG"/>

We answered the first question about data and maps by explaining we were
demonstrating open source tools like our kit that kids can use to
collect environmental data or other data in their communities. How about
counting the number of healthy trees on their block? Would that combine
the photo data with a map? Would you need to collect more information
about the health of the trees? Is that data? Yes.

These techniques came from an open science community called the <a
href="http://publiclab.org/">public lab</a>, and you can buy your own <a
href="http://store.publiclab.org/collections/mapping">balloon and kite
mapping kit</a> from their site.

Hackers and Hacking
===================

Events like these inspire us to try out new things. At a recent
Rackspace hackday I put together a <a
href="https://gist.github.com/annegentle/9467910">Python script</a> that
uploads all the photos from the camera rig (after bringing it to the
ground) to Rackspace Cloud Files, then makes an index page on the fly.
Oh so punny.

At a practice session, my seven-year-old asked Dana, "Are you a good
hacker or a bad hacker?" Dana was explaining how she hacked a juice
bottle to make the camera rig including a stabilizing tail. It was a
serious question and deserves an answer. (Though to tell the truth, he
probably would have gone along with us either way.) We're good hackers.
We love to get out in the world and show how hacking really works,
innovating and playing at the same time.

Communities and Outreach
========================

Over the past year, Rackspace has sponsored dozens of workshops,
meetups, hackdays, and small conferences as part of our outreach program
to developers and thinkers like these students. The Rackspace Developer
Relations Group wants  to find the hackers who are going to change the
world. Many of those developers are already investing their time and
energy in the open source world and building amazing things.

We want to support that. We want to see more of that. We want Rackspace
to be the platform that people choose when they build the software that
makes the world better. Those might seem like audacious goals, but we're
thinking big, we're thinking long term, and our steps start by answering
questions like, are you a good hacker or a bad hacker?

